# GCI18-NewRepository
PEOPLE'S MOST AWAITED FESTIVAL-DIWALI
The beauty of festivals is that they bring our near and dear ones closer. As a part of the Diwali celebration, people visit each other and exchange gifts. Many people host parties on this day to celebrate the festival with their relatives and friends. The celebration begins by offering prayers to Lord Ganesha and Laxmi. This is followed by lighting diyas and candles and illuminating the house.We must take this festival as an opportunity to bond with our loved ones by spending quality time with them. Having dinner, cracking jokes and sitting in the company of our friends and family members can be far more enjoyable than bursting crackers and adding to the pollution.Diwali should be the time to spread love and joy not pollution.

DIWALI AND POLLUTION
People often argue as to what difference it would make if they do not burn crackers on Diwali. Most people feel that one day of air pollution caused due to Diwali crackers cannot have a high impact on the overall atmosphere of our planet. But this is not true. Statistics reveal that the pollution caused due to the burning of fire crackers on this day is equivalent to that caused jointly by numerous vehicles running on the road for several days. It thus contributes majorly to global warming year after year.Fire crackers are known to produce deadly smoke. The smoke emitted by the bursting of certain crackers is said to be much more harmful than that produced by factories and vehicles. It impacts the atmosphere far more adversely and causes numerous air-borne diseases. People suffer from breathing problems and many other health issues because of this hazardous smoke. Animals, birds and other living organisms are affected as badly.
